Add checklist for adding new API (#578)
karmada-io/website: docs/developers/add-new-api.md

---
title: Add new API
---

This article is a checklist. When you add an API, you need to check whether the following items are updated simultaneously.

> After modifying any of the following check items, or waiting for all modification items to be modified, please execute the `make update` command to automatically generate the files, then submit these files to the Karmada repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After modifying any of the following check items, or waiting for all modification items to be modified, please execute the `make update` command to automatically generate the files, then submit these files to the [Karmada repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada).
```
Could give a specific path like: https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/api

## Update codegen

> Codegen contains many automatic code generation tools, including `deepcopy-gen`, `register-gen`, `conversion-gen`, `client-gen`, `lister-gen`, `informer-gen`, `openapi-gen`. Please set the above code generation configuration for the new added API in the file `hack/update-codegen.sh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Codegen contains many automatic code generation tools, including `deepcopy-gen`, `register-gen`, `conversion-gen`, `client-gen`, `lister-gen`, `informer-gen`, `openapi-gen`. Please set the above code generation configuration for the newly added API in the file `hack/update-codegen.sh`.
```

## Update crdgen

> Generate CRD Yaml files for the added APIs using the controller-gen, please set the configuration in the file `hack/update-crdgen.sh`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate CRD Yaml files for the added APIs using the controller-gen, set the configuration in the file `hack/update-crdgen.sh`.
```

## Update import aliases

In order to unify the format when importing APIs package name, Karmada defines the import aliases of different API packages in file `.import-aliases`. Please check whether you need to modify it.

## CRD install

In order to ensure that the new API can be installed correctly, please modify the configuration of the following files:

- charts/karmada/_crds/kustomization.yaml

## Helm install

If the new API is located in a new group, please modify the following files and add corresponding configurations for the new API to ensure that helm is installed correctly:

- charts/karmada/templates/post-delete-job.yaml
- charts/karmada/templates/post-install-job.yaml
- charts/karmada/templates/pre-install-job.yaml

## Update Karmada schema

In order to correctly discover the new API during the client call, please check whether you need to modify the configuration of the following files:

- pkg/util/gclient/gclient.go

## Update swagger json

> In order to find the new API in [karmada's API](https://karmada.io/docs/category/karmada-api), we need to modify the `hack/tools/swagger/generateswagger.go` file so that the new API can be generated in the `api/openapi-spec/swagger.json` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to find the new API in [Karmada's API](https://karmada.io/docs/category/karmada-api), we need to modify the `hack/tools/swagger/generateswagger.go` file so that the new API can be generated in the `api/openapi-spec/swagger.json` file.
```

> In order to find the new API in [Karmada's API](https://karmada.io/docs/category/karmada-api), we need to modify the `hack/tools/swagger/generateswagger.go` file so that the new API can be generated in the `api/openapi-spec/swagger.json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include a new API in [Karmada's API documentation](https://karmada.io/docs/category/karmada-api), modify the `hack/tools/swagger/generateswagger.go` file to generate it in `api/openapi-spec/swagger.json`.
```
